Adding chapter for object detection. (#202)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 6 - Basic CV Tasks/object_detection.mdx

# Object Detection

In this chapter, we'll explore the fascinating world of object detection—a vital task in modern computer vision systems. We will demystify essential concepts, discuss popular methods, examine applications, and discuss evaluation metrics. By the end, you'll have a solid foundation and be ready to venture further into advanced topics.

![Image displaying the bounding boxes around multiple objects in the frame along with the confidence score of their classification](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Object_Detection.png)
## Object Detection Overview

### Introduction

Object detection is the task of identifying and locating specific objects within digital images or video frames. It has far-reaching implications across diverse sectors, including self-driving cars, facial recognition systems, and medical diagnosis tools. 

### Classification vs Localization

> Classification distinguishes objects based on unique attributes, while localization determines an object's location within an image. Object detection combines both approaches, encapsulating identified entities with bounding boxes and assigning corresponding class labels. Imagine recognizing different fruit types and pinpointing their exact locations in a single image. That's object detection at play!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classification distinguishes objects based on unique attributes, while localization determines an object's location within an image. Object detection combines both approaches, locating entities and assigning corresponding class labels. Imagine recognizing different fruit types and pinpointing their exact locations in a single image. That's object detection at play!
```

> # Object Detection:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Object Detection
```

Author: Done

> In this guide, we'll explore the fascinating world of object detection—a vital component in modern computer vision systems. We'll demystify essential concepts, discuss popular methods, examine applications, and touch upon evaluation metrics. By the end, you'll have a solid foundation and be ready to venture further into advanced topics.

Author: Cool, I will change that.

> In this guide, we'll explore the fascinating world of object detection—a vital component in modern computer vision systems. We'll demystify essential concepts, discuss popular methods, examine applications, and touch upon evaluation metrics. By the end, you'll have a solid foundation and be ready to venture further into advanced topics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this chapter, we'll explore the fascinating world of object detection—a vital task in modern computer vision systems. We will demystify essential concepts, discuss popular methods, examine applications, and discuss evaluation metrics. By the end, you'll have a solid foundation and be ready to venture further into advanced topics.
```

Author: Done

> |![Object Detection](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Object_Detection.png)|

Reviewer 3: Should we explain about bounding box?

|:--:| 

> | *Image displaying the bounding boxes around multiple objects in the frame along with the confidence score of their classification* |

Reviewer 2: you can write this in alt text instead of making this in a table format

Author: @merveenoyan , I wanted it to be like a caption to the image, alt text won't be visible I believe. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I think when people scroll on it they'll see so it should be ok

> ## 1. Object Detection Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Object Detection Overview
```

Author: Done

> ### 1.1 Introduction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Introduction
```

Author: Done

> Object detection empowers computers to identify and locate specific objects within digital images or video frames. It has far-reaching implications across diverse sectors, including self-driving cars, facial recognition systems, and medical diagnosis tools. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Object detection is the task of identifying and locating specific objects within digital images or video frames. It has far-reaching implications across diverse sectors, including self-driving cars, facial recognition systems, and medical diagnosis tools. 
```

Author: Done

> ### 1.2 Classification vs Localization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Classification vs Localization
```

Author: Done

> Classification distinguishes objects based on their unique attributes, while localization determines an object's location within an image. Object detection combines both approaches, encapsulating identified entities with bounding boxes and assigning corresponding class labels. Imagine recognizing different fruit types and pinpointing their exact locations in a single image. That's object detection at play!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Classification distinguishes objects based on unique attributes, while localization determines an object's location within an image. Object detection combines both approaches, encapsulating identified entities with bounding boxes and assigning corresponding class labels. Imagine recognizing different fruit types and pinpointing their exact locations in a single image. That's object detection at play!
```

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we have a pipeline snippet here just like the page for image segmentation? https://github.com/johko/computer-vision-course/blob/c48029cd0e05f4eb280358c5bcfa7e2dca7a5fa8/chapters/en/Unit%206%20-%20Basic%20CV%20Tasks/segmentation.mdx#L43

## 2. DETR Model

### 2.1 DETR's Approach

> The DEtection TRansformer [(DETR)](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/detr) model revolutionized object detection by treating it as a direct set prediction problem, discarding conventional anchor boxes and feature pyramids. Employing a Transformer architecture, DETR simplifies the process and enhances overall performance. Envision scanning a cluttered desk filled with random objects. Traditionally, we would inspect small regions meticulously. But with DETR, we quickly overview the entire scene, effortlessly identifying and locating every object—similar to human visual inspection!

Reviewer 2: We have a chapter for it https://github.com/johko/computer-vision-course/blob/main/chapters/en/Unit%203%20-%20Vision%20Transformers/Common%20Vision%20Transformers%20-%20DETR.mdx

Author: @merveenoyan , so, should I just delete it or instead can I add Detectron?

Reviewer 2: I feel like you could briefly mention which architectures are used and give internal links

## 3. Object Detection Techniques

> ### 3.1 YOLO: Single-Stage Detectors

Reviewer 2: would be nice to have this as a separate chapter

Author: Cool, will do that.

[YOLO](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/) (You Only Look Once) provides fast and accurate object detection by analyzing the entire input image simultaneously rather than observing fragments sequentially. Improved versions like YOLOv2, YOLOv3, YOLOv4, and YOLOv5 build upon predecessors to increase speed and accuracy. Ideal for monitoring high-speed processes, e.g., assembly lines, where rapid identification matters.

> ### 3.2 Faster R-CNN: Two-Stage Detectors

Reviewer 2: Same for this one

Author: Okay, will make section 3 as a new chapter.

[Faster R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.01497) significantly improves earlier strategies such as Fast R-CNN and R-CNN. Organized into two primary stages (generating region proposals and then refining them), it integrates a Region Proposal Network (RPN) for efficient proposal generation. Unlike previous techniques, Faster R-CNN substantially reduces computational complexity, making it suited for complex tasks demanding increased precision. Perfect for challenging problems like reading handwriting where variations require sophisticated algorithms.

> ## 4. Object Detection Applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use Cases
```

Author: Done

Object detection impacts numerous industries, offering valuable insights and automation opportunities. Representative examples include autonomous vehicles navigating roads, surveillance systems covering vast public spaces, healthcare imaging systems detecting diseases, manufacturing plants maintaining output consistency, and augmented reality enriching user experiences.

> ## 5. Evaluation Metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to Evaluate an Object Detection Model? 
```

Author: Done

> Evaluating object detection performance requires proper metrics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have now seen how to use an object detection model, but how can you evaluate it? As demonstrated in the previous section, object detection is 
primarily a supervised learning task. This means that the dataset is composed of images and their corresponding bounding boxes, which serve as the 
ground truth. A few metrics can be used to evaluate your model. The most common ones are:
```

Author: Done

> ### 5.1 Intersection over Union (IoU)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Intersection over Union (IoU) measures the overlap between predicted and actual bounding boxes as a percentage ranging from 0% to 100%. Higher IoU percentages indicate better alignments, i.e., improved accuracy. Useful when assessing tracker performance under changing conditions, e.g., following wild animals during migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **The Intersection over Union (IoU) or Jaccard index** measures the overlap between predicted and actual bounding boxes as a percentage ranging from 0% to 100%. Higher IoU percentages indicate better alignments, i.e., improved accuracy. Useful when assessing tracker performance under changing conditions, e.g., following wild animals during migration.
```

Author: Done

> ### 5.2 Mean Average Precision (mAP)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Mean Average Precision (mAP) estimates object detection efficiency using both precision (correct prediction ratio) and recall (true positive identification ability). Calculated across varying IoU thresholds, mAP functions as a holistic assessment tool for object detection algorithms. Helpful when measuring sentiment analysis models' effectiveness, e.g., processing extensive customer reviews.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Mean Average Precision (mAP)** estimates object detection efficiency using both precision (correct prediction ratio) and recall (true positive identification ability). Calculated across varying IoU thresholds, mAP functions as a holistic assessment tool for object detection algorithms. Helpful when measuring sentiment analysis models' effectiveness, e.g., processing extensive customer reviews.
```

Author: Done

> ## 6. Hands-On Tutorial: Implementing DETR for Object Detection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Hands-On Tutorial: Implementing DETR for Object Detection
```

Author: Done

> ## 6. Hands-On Tutorial: Implementing DETR for Object Detection

Reviewer 2: We jump back here with the model, maybe it's best if we don't have this since people will read it in the upcoming pages

Author: Done, removed that section, I had put it there so that they can jump directly to the implementation if they are curious.

To get started with DETR, follow along with [this](https://github.com/johko/computer-vision-course/blob/main/notebooks/Unit%203%20-%20Vision%20Transformers/Fine-tuning%20Vision%20Transformers%20for%20Object%20detection.ipynb) detailed tutorial, walking you through installation, dataset preparation, model training, and visualization steps.

> ## 7. Conclusion and Future Work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Conclusion and Future Work
```

Author: Done

Understanding object detection lays the groundwork for mastering advanced computer vision techniques, enabling the construction of powerful and accurate solutions addressing rigorous needs. Some future research areas include developing lightweight object detection models which are fast and easily deployable. Exploration in the field of object detection in 3D space, e.g., for augmented reality applications, is another avenue to explore. 

> ## 8. References and Additional Resources

Reviewer 3: adding common datasets?

Author: In the references? Datasets like VOC, MS-COCO?

Reviewer 3: @johko What do you think about it?

> ## 8. References and Additional Resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## References and Additional Resources
```

Author: Done
